Added new kb article grid-kb-customize-hierarchy-expand-column-blazor-grid (#2240)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-customize-hierarchy-expand-column-blazor-grid.md

---

> title: Customize Hierarchy Expand Column in Blazor Grid

Reviewer: I would use 1-2 more specific and relevant words in the titles instead of customize. For example,
```suggestion
title: Reorder, Lock or Resize the Hierarchy Expand Column in a Blazor Grid
```

description: Learn how to customize the hierarchy expand/collapse column in Telerik Blazor Grid, including changing its position, locking it, and setting its width and title.
type: how-to

> page_title: How to Customize the Hierarchy Expand/Collapse Column in Telerik Blazor Grid

Reviewer: Same as for the `title`. The page title appears in search results, so if it's specific, it's immediately clear if the reader should click it.

slug: grid-kb-customize-hierarchy-expand-column-blazor-grid

> tags: grid, blazor, hierarchy, expand, collapse, column, customize

Reviewer: Tags should make sense outside context.

```suggestion
tags: blazor, grid, hierarchy, expand, collapse, column
```

res_type: kb

> ticketid: 1658470

Reviewer: There are more tickets about this.

---

## Environment

<table>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>Product</td>
            <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Description

This KB article answers the following questions:

> - Can I change the position of the hierarchy expand/collapse column?

Reviewer: Let's use `*` for consistency in the docs markdown.

- Is it possible to lock/freeze the expand column for a hierarchical grid?
- Can I add a title to the hierarchy expand/collapse column?
- How can I change the width of the expand column in a hierarchical Grid?

## Solution

> By default, the hierarchy expand/collapse column in the Telerik UI for Blazor [Grid]({%slug grid-overview%}) is not declared in the markup like the other data-bound columns. It renders automatically when a `DetailTemplate` is added to the Grid. This built-in hierarchy expand/collapse column does not support being locked or other common configurations like managing its position, setting its width, or adding a title.

Reviewer: Cross-link somewhere with https://feedback.telerik.com/blazor/1647135-ability-to-control-the-position-of-the-expand-column-in-a-hierarchical-grid

To customize the hierarchy expand/collapse column, follow these steps:

1. Hide the default hierarchy expand column using [custom CSS]({%slug themes-override%}).
2. Add another [column with a template]({%slug grid-templates-column%}) for expanding and collapsing the detail templates through the [Grid state]({%slug components/grid/features/hierarchy%}#expand-rows-from-code).

> 3. Disable the data operations for this column if you have enabled them in the Grid (filtering, sorting, etc.)

Reviewer: This is necessary only if the column has a `Field`. Otherwise the data operations are disabled by default.

> 4. Manage the icon type in the custom hierarchy expand column based on the item's expanded state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Toggle the icon in the custom hierarchy expand column based on the item's expanded state.
```

> 5. Configure the custom hierarchy expand column as needed. For example, managing its order within the `GridColumns` declaration or enabling the `ColumnMenu` to lock the column.

Reviewer: This step is probably self-evident and not necessary, but if you keep it, consider simplification.

```suggestion
5. Configure the custom hierarchy expand column. For example, set its order in the `GridColumns` declaration or enable the `ColumnMenu` to lock the column.
```

> Here is a basic example demonstrating the approach: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>caption Using a custom Grid hierarchy expand/collapse column
```

````CSHTML
<TelerikGrid @ref="@GridRef"
             Data="@GridData"
             Pageable="true"
             Sortable="true"
             ShowColumnMenu="true"
             FilterMode="@GridFilterMode.FilterMenu"

>              Class="no-default-hierarchy-cell"

Reviewer: Perhaps...

```suggestion
             Class="no-default-hierarchy-column"
```

                    <GridColumn Field="DealSize"></GridColumn>
                </GridColumns>
            </TelerikGrid>
        }
    </DetailTemplate>
    <GridColumns>       
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(MainModel.Id)" Width="60px"></GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(MainModel.Name)" ></GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(MainModel.Address)"></GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(MainModel.Email)"></GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Width="60px" Filterable="false" Sortable="false">
            <Template>
                @{
                    var dataItem = (MainModel)context;
                }
                <TelerikButton Icon="@GetButtonIcon(dataItem)" FillMode="@Telerik.Blazor.ThemeConstants.Button.FillMode.Flat" OnClick="@( () => OnButtonClick(dataItem) )" />
            </Template>
        </GridColumn>        
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

<style>
    /* shrink hierarchy column - do not hide it completely */
    .no-default-hierarchy-cell .k-hierarchy-col {
        width: 0;
    }
    /* hide everything from hierarchy column */
    .no-default-hierarchy-cell .k-hierarchy-cell * {
        display: none;
    }
</style>

@code {

>     private TelerikGrid<MainModel> GridRef { get; set; } = null!;

Reviewer: A nullable `@ref` is technically more correct. In some scenarios the Grid may not be always rendered, so `null!` will be misleading for both the compiler and the developer. You will also need some null checks in the code, like in https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/components/grid/filter/searchbox#search-from-code

Alternatively, you can use `GridRef!` instead of null checks when it's clear that the Grid reference exists. For example, if an event fires from inside the Grid, obviously the component exists.

```suggestion
    private TelerikGrid<MainModel>? GridRef { get; set; }
```

    private List<MainModel> GridData { get; set; } = new List<MainModel>();

    private async Task OnButtonClick(MainModel dataItem)
    {
        var gridState = GridRef.GetState();

>         if (gridState.ExpandedItems.Contains(dataItem))

Reviewer: This may fail in `OnRead` scenario which reset the data item references. You may need to override `Equals()` for the Grid model class to make the example bullet-proof. Or at least mention this somewhere in the article.
